[Transcript missing]
The Unix permissions model has been
around with us for a while now.
This weekend we're kind of
trying to track it down,
how long we've had it.
Tracked it back to 1979 in the Unix v7,
and then earlier today we
tracked it back to 1971.
So it's been around at
least as far back as that.
I think now for Mac OS X it's time for
us to move beyond that and to actually
introduce File System Access Controls.
- So today we're gonna introduce to
you what we're doing in Tiger with
File System Access Controls
and really try and answer three
deceptively simple questions.
What are ACLs or ACLs as
we sometimes call them?
Why are we adding them to Mac OS X?
But perhaps more importantly,
how do ACLs affect the way
that you're developing software
and managing your networks?
So today we're going to cover
this in seven different topics.
First, an overview of File System ACLs,
what are the key features
and benefits of them,
and then present a high-level
view of the File System ACL model
and its capabilities.
Then we'll show you how we're
changing Tiger to adapt and to
provide access to access controls.
And then a more detailed look at how
it's being supported in the kernel.
along with some specifics in how
file access controls work and how
the kernel calculates permissions.
Then we'll show you the developer
APIs that are available for you for
controlling access in file systems.
And then wrap up with how we've
changed our group membership
and adapted Mac OS X to a more
flexible group membership system.
So let's get started.
The purpose of File Access Control is
so we can be more expressive
and more flexible in how
permissions are used with files.
Right now the existing model,
it's a bit too crude and a lot of
times gets in the way of how we're
trying to do our work on a daily basis.
Some of the key things that we'd like to
achieve this with access control support,
one, to be able to support
XP clients with our servers.
A lot of our customers are requiring
this to be able to support their home
directories and to provide workgroup
services in their Microsoft networks.
And we'd like to do this
with Mac OS X Server.
In addition,
we'd like to enable better client
fit-in of the Mac OS X desktop into
active directory networks so that the
Mac OS X client can act as a true peer
to the other machines in those networks
and have full understanding of the
access controls that are in use today on
the servers that are on those networks.
and also to provide a foundation
technology for collaborative
applications so that sharing
between users and different
groups are easier and more secure.
And finally,
we'd like to be able to enable
workflow applications so that the
right permissions are set on documents
as they go through a workflow
in a somewhat automated fashion.
Conceptually an ACL is
really very simple.
It's simply a list of
access control entries.
Each one of those entries identifies a
user and a set of permissions that are
either granted or denied for that object.
And then each ACL is then bound to a
file or directory in the file system.
So for example,
we can take a look at this
hypothetical math assignment
document and how we might be able
to use ACLs to control access to it.
First of all,
we definitely have to be able to
have so the teachers can read,
write, and delete the document so
they can set the assignment.
Then we have a hypothetical
student teacher called Ms.
Buxton who is not really ready to provide
assignments or edit assignments and
she's going to be given read-only access,
but she's actually a member
of the teacher's group since
she's a student teacher.
The math students will then have just
read-only access to the assignments
and everyone else will have no access.
We'll revisit this example
throughout the presentation,
providing some more detail
around it and actually how it
would work within our system.
So we can go back to our original
statement of flexibility for
file system access controls,
and we've got some refinements
now that we can apply to that.
One, we definitely want to be able to
associate multiple users and groups
and assign those permissions to
different file system objects.
As well,
to provide more granular permissions,
for example, the delete permission,
which you cannot assign to
an individual file today.
And then also to support
permissions inheritance,
which will help enable
our workflow situations.
And finally, support NT compatibility
of our client and server.
So now that we have our requirements,
let's take a look at what the
File System ACL model actually is.
We can compare this to existing
models that are out there
today that one might draw from.
First of all, we can take a look at
Apple share privileges,
which weren't really in ACL,
but were more capable in some ways than
the POSIX permissions that we have today.
For example, we could have assigned
a group as an owner,
and permissions inheritance was
implicit in the fact that you could
only assign permissions to folders.
There's also Andrew File System,
which is very popular for its ACLs.
And it provides the same ability
to have multiple users and groups,
also assign permissions to folders,
and introduces some new permissions
such as the ability to admin and delete.
The Windows NT model, for example,
introduces fine-grained permissions,
multiple users and groups,
the ability to allow
and deny permissions,
as well as defining a set
of rules for inheritance.
Finally, there was a POSIX draft,
1003.1e, that defined an ACL model for
Unix systems as a proposal.
It provided the same set of
permissions that we have today,
read, write, and execute,
but allowed also multiple users
and groups with allow-only
entries and no-deny entries.
Its inheritance is somewhat limited and
set to a system of default permissions
for new items in the directory.
And this proposal has failed
to gain standardization and
has been since withdrawn.
So the model that we're
actually going to provide in
Tiger will support NT semantics,
including the fine-grained permissions
that are available on NT systems,
as well as found in NFS v4.
We'll provide for static inheritance
so that you can use the NT rules of
inheritance to define inheritance
of permissions when items are newly
created in a directory hierarchy,
as well as supporting allow and
deny so that you can fine-tune
permissions that are given to a user
based on group memberships and so on.
The interesting innovation that we're
going to provide here is combining
the POSIX and UNIX permissions
that we have today with an ACL,
which will minimize our ability to
have migration impact and maximize
compatibility with existing applications.
Moreover, that you will be able to,
on an existing volume,
assign ACLs and deploy them in
specific parts of the file system,
certain directories,
individual file objects, for example,
without having to reformat the
entire volume to support that.
Finally,
we have an API based on the POS extract
that we had talked about earlier,
which provides a level of
extraction and flexibility to
allow for future extensions.
So a number of changes that
we're going to make in Tiger to
support file system ACLs.
First of that will be
supporting ACLs from the kernel.
ACLs are part of a new
extended security architecture,
so ACLs are fully a first-class
security attribute for files.
And this will require
support deep in the kernel,
and Mike Smith will come and explain
this to us in detail later on.
As part of this,
we've had to revisit how we
address groups in Mac OS X.
So we're eliminating the existing
16-group membership limit and
adding support for nested groups.
In HFS+, ACLs will be supported based
on new support for extended attributes.
Extended attributes are a new
functionality in HFS+ in Tiger that's
built on some pre-existing definitions
in the specification for HFS so that it
doesn't require completely reformatting
the volumes to take advantage of this.
The new structures and information
required in the volume format can be
built out transparently as you assign
ACLs and extended attributes to items.
And finally,
this will be available both in
the Tiger client and Tiger server.
Of course, changing the SMB client is
another important feature
for us in our ACL strategy,
providing us with a good client
fit-in in Microsoft networks and the
ability to view users and groups from
Active Directory and edit the ACLs
that are in the files on NT servers.
And of course we'll also be
updating AFP and the AFP client
to support ACLs natively.
Altogether,
the changes in the kernel and file
system provide us a good foundation
for extended permissions in Tiger.
Through the POSIX and Carbon layers,
your applications will gain access to
the ACL APIs so that you can change
and manipulate ACLs from your software,
and also providing command line
tools for management of systems,
including LS and Chmod, for example,
to view and edit ACLs,
but also in command line tools like CP,
because now we need to preserve this
new information when we copy files.
[Transcript missing]
With our solution,
you actually end up with a full
fidelity solution because the file
system permissions already have
the same finer-grained permissions
that are found on the NT systems
that it's being served to.
This is also reflected in the AFP server
where we'll be showing permissions as
effective permissions to Panther and
earlier clients because they don't have
the current capability of understanding
the more fine-grained ACL permissions.
But full ACL permissions will
be exposed to Tiger clients.
But both Samba and AFP together
will work from the same basic set of
permissions in the local file system,
providing very unified support
to both clients and the same
capabilities in each platform.
Through Finder we'll be
supporting editing ACLs from
the desktop on both AFP,
SMP, and local volumes.
And of course in our server tools,
providing very flexible management of
ACLs in a much more fine-grained manner,
including the ability for
you to set presets and define
your own permissions mask,
making management of ACLs
very efficient and easy.
All in all, I think we've got a very
complete and comprehensive set
of changes in Tiger for ACLs.
Now I'd like to introduce you
Mike Smith from CoreOS Engineering.
Thanks, Rusty.
So, in the next few minutes, I guess,
I'll be talking about the kernel changes,
the introduction of new centralized
authorization infrastructure
that we're calling KAUF.
I'll talk a little bit about
some details of the ACL format,
mostly internal details
for reference purposes,
and we'll work through a brief
example using the scenario
that Rusty raised earlier,
and then I'll talk a little
bit about the developer API.
I'm not actually going to bore
you by working through the
entire API detail by detail.
The documentation will be
available in good time,
but it will go through a code
sample to give you a feel for
what we're actually doing.
So when we embarked on supporting ACLs,
we already knew that we were
going to need a centralized
authorization infrastructure.
The existing authorization
mechanisms inside the Mac OS kernel,
whilst more than adequate to the task,
are relatively ad hoc authorization
decisions made all over the place.
There is some duplication of code,
and this works okay because the
model we've been working with
has been relatively simple.
However, ACLs and the like introduce
considerable complexities,
and so it's fairly important for us
to reduce the amount of work that
file system developers need to do,
and also to just overall reduce the
code bulk and replication of code.
Authorization itself inside the kernel
really involves knowing three things:
Who you are actually
performing the action for,
what you're operating on,
and what the actual operation is,
the specific details related to it.
Kayoth provides management for
credentials which are our identification,
user identification.
It supports processing of ACLs,
provides helper functions
for translation and the like.
And it provides a flexible
mechanism for defining actions
as well as a plug-in architecture
that allows third-party modules to
participate in the authorization
process on a per-scope basis.
We expect this to be of particular
interest to folks writing virus filters,
but potentially also
other content filters.
And the functionality
is very much open-ended,
so if you find yourself having a
desire to control the way that access
to particular resources is managed,
then you can basically write a module
against our API and just get involved.
The consequence of all of this is that
the ACLs are then fully integrated with
the kernel authorization subsystem.
Again, in the vein of reducing the amount
of work that individual file
systems and modules need to perform,
we've layered ACL implementation over
the top of extended attribute support.
So any file system that supports
extended attributes gets ACLs for free.
File systems that have their
own ACL model can translate
to and from our format.
As we're using the
Microsoft NFS v4 semantic,
generally for file systems
with native ACL models,
these translations have already been
explored and so they're well understood.
And again, as Rusty pointed out,
we will continue to support POSIX ACLs.
The default processing for ACLs
leaves you in a situation when
you're at the end of the ACL,
and I'll get into that in
more detail in a little bit,
where you would deny the request.
In our case,
we will simply fall through and
consider the POSIX permissions.
And this gives the expected behavior.
If you have a file with existing
POSIX permissions and you want
to add extra control to it,
you can apply an ACL.
The processing of the tool will behave
pretty much as you expect it to.
This is a simplified overview
of the way that things look now
with the KL subsystem interacting
with the VFS to provide the new
authorization functionality.
The interesting item on this particular
diagram is the group membership resolver.
As Rusty mentioned,
we're going beyond the 16-group limit,
integrating with Active Directory.
It's no longer practical for us
to keep a complete list of all of
the groups that every credential
is a member of inside the kernel,
so we need an external
resolution service.
I'm just going to talk
briefly now about our formats.
This is obviously not a
comprehensive description.
We'd really rather that you used our
API for actually manipulating these,
but understanding what's going on
under the covers may help you keep up.
Some terminology.
Rusty's already briefly talked
about access control entries.
They associate an identifier of
some sort with a set of permissions.
Access Control List.
The word list is kind of important
because it's an ordered list.
The processing of an ACL is
dependent upon the order
of the entries in the list.
The User ID and Group ID you
should be familiar with already.
They're the current 32-bit
user and group identifiers that
we've been using for some time.
We're introducing a new globally
unique ID which can be applied
to both users and groups.
This is to deal with a situation where
you may have very large numbers of users
or you may have groups of users that
have not been maintained coherently.
So you run into the problems of either
exhausting the user ID space or simply
having collisions to users numbered 500,
for example.
The GUID is randomly generated.
It's guaranteed to be unique.
It operates in a 128-bit space.
And so you can uniquely identify
objects by their ownership
even if you move them around.
You have a permanent handle for them.
And the discussion is not really
complete without mentioning
Microsoft's security outpost.
identifier, which is a structured
The data item that is
used with SMB operations,
it performs very much the same
functionality as the GUID.
Microsoft chose to embed information
in there rather than using an
indirect reference to the information.
The Kauth subsystem provides
functionality for translations
between all of these items.
So if you have a GUID,
you can get the UID, you can get the SID.
On a local file system that's using
our extended attribute support,
we'll be storing a GUID for the
owner of the object and the access
control list in the extended
API as an extended attribute.
Obviously, again,
we would like you to use our
API functions for manipulating these.
You may be getting a common theme here.
One useful thing to note is that because
we are tracking the owner with a GUID,
it becomes possible for
groups to own objects.
Thank you for joining us.
I'm Mike Smith, and I'm the executive
director of Open Directory.
Dice, again,
associates an identifier with some
access rights and control bits
which determine whether or not
those rights are granted or denied,
and also some bits
controlling inheritance.
More lists of stuff.
These are the access permissions that we
provide for controlling access to files.
You can independently control reading,
writing, executing of the file,
deletion of individual files,
obviously appending of data.
And then read/write control individually
over the file's basic attributes,
time stamps and the like,
extended attributes with the
exclusion of the security information,
the security information itself,
and you can also grant individuals
or groups the rights to change
the ownership of a file.
The permissions associated with
directories are very similar.
Obviously, we substitute read and write
with list and add file.
Searching in the directory,
it's possible to search within a
directory for a file if you know
the file's name without having to
have rights to access a visitor.
Pretty much parallels to the
current Unix permissions.
And again, the controls on rewrite of
attributes and ownership.
The flags applied to an individual
ACE obviously allow and deny,
but the inheritance is perhaps something
that's not quite so well understood.
Directory objects allow you to specify
ACEs which will be inherited either
by child directories or by files,
and also allow you to control
whether those are inherited
once or multiple times.
This is what Rusty was referring
to as static inheritance.
It effectively allows you to set
up template ACLs for both files and
directories created inside others.
It allows you to establish
permissions on objects so that an
individual can create an object but
may not necessarily subsequently
have full access to that object.
It's a real support for
the workflow environment.
So I'm going to come back to
Rusty's scenario here and work
through a couple of brief examples.
Just to recap, we have a school network.
We have a group which
contains all the teachers.
contains the math students.
We have a student teacher, Ms.
Buxton,
who is part of the teachers group because
she needs access to teachers-only files.
But right now we don't want to
grant her the ability to write to
this particular math assignment.
So we rephrase this as an
ACL with three ordered entries.
First up,
we put a denial entry which prevents Ms.
Buxton from either writing or
deleting that math assignment.
We have a blanket allow for
teachers that allows them to
rewrite and delete the file,
and allow for math students who
actually want to read the file.
And when we're processing an ACL,
we process each entry in order.
In entries, ID is compared against
the ID of the requester.
If they're not identical or if
the requester is not a member of
the group called out in the entry,
then we just ignore the entry.
If they are a member,
then we look at whether the
entry is an allow or deny entry.
If it's a deny entry,
we take the permissions that are
being requested by the operation.
If any of them are denied by the entry,
we stop processing at that point.
alternatively,
if we cumulatively accumulate all of the
requested permissions from allow entries,
then we allow the operation.
In this particular example,
let's consider a math student who
wants to open the file read-only.
Perhaps they're copying it off
to a private disk so they can
take it home and work on it.
They'll be requesting read access.
We look at the first entry, Ms.
Buxton, math student, not Ms.
Buxton.
Fine.
Second entry, math student,
not a teacher.
Okay, ignore that one too.
Third one, math student.
Okay, they want read.
It says they can have read.
They get to read the file.
If we look at another example, Ms.
Buxton is attempting to save over
a copy of the math assignment,
and maybe she just made a mistake.
Maybe she feels that she's going
to be a hacker one of these days.
Who knows?
She's going to want,
she will have opened the
file using read permissions,
would have looked at the first entry,
deny Ms.
Buxton, okay, this applies to Ms.
Buxton, but it's only denying her,
write and delete, okay,
so we don't block her there.
Second entry, Ms.
Buxton, she's a teacher,
she's allowed to read,
she can read the file.
Comes time to save,
she wants write access.
First entry, Ms.
Buxton, write, denied.
So you can express things with
even a simple ACL like this that
would not be possible with the
traditional POSIX permissions,
and obviously I've kept this example
short because it could go on forever.
The developer API,
we went around with this several times,
but ultimately decided that
rather than trying to introduce
a great deal of new API,
we would try and stay as
close to the POSIX API,
the existing API that you folks
are familiar with already.
Certainly in philosophy, obviously,
we needed some extra functionality
and we had a bunch more details.
We tried to avoid namespace collisions
so that you don't suddenly discover
that there are symbols in your
application that are colliding
with definitions and header files.
And we've avoided exposing
any data structures directly.
Rather, we've preferred to stick with
accessor functions in a fashion
that will allow you to remain
binary compatible even if we need
to add extra security information.
Obviously, if your application doesn't
care about access controls,
I'm not quite sure why
you're here right now,
but your application can
continue to not care.
We're not really changing the
basic concept of having security
information associated with a file,
we're just being much more eloquent
about what you can express with it.
It becomes particularly important with
the extra complexity that go with ACLs
that applications not try to simply
look at a file security information and
determine from that security information
whether or not something that they're
going to do is going to be successful.
The group membership resolution
process can be time consuming.
There may also be other things
going on behind the scenes.
And finally,
the file that you're attempting
to access may actually not be
on the local machine at all.
It may be on a remote file server
which potentially has completely
different rules for evaluating whether
or not you're going to have access.
So if you can at all get away with it,
just go ahead and try the operation.
Be prepared for it to fail.
Have a good recovery,
good back out scenario.
But don't count on guessing ahead
of time whether or not you're going
to be able to process something.
Obviously,
some applications do need to know.
If you want feedback
for a GUI application,
you want to be able to gray out
the icon as you mouse over it,
whatever.
We do provide interfaces for that.
At the POSIX level you
have the access function.
There are other functions in Carbon.
These will take ACLs into account.
They'll use the same K-auth
infrastructure that's used
for actual access checking.
But there are scenarios in
which even those aren't going
to be able to give you answers.
So you need to be prepared for the
situation where we simply can't
tell you ahead of time whether
something's going to succeed.
You're just going to have to be prepared
to try it and deal with the situation.
So some applications do need to care.
Obviously anyone who cares about security
of the files they're working with,
archivers and copiers
that want to be accurate,
that want to preserve the
information that already exists
in the security structures.
Anyone who is providing file
management functionality,
whether you're a finder analogue,
whether you're simply an
enhanced open/closed dialog,
whether you have some other
way of representing files,
you're going to need to be able to
provide folks with the opportunity to
edit security information on the files.
And so you will need to use
these APIs and you'll need to
come up with UI and so forth.
And obviously, we're building this
functionality so that you,
as developers, can produce things that
we never thought of.
And so if you find that ACLs are
relevant to something you want to do,
then you'll need to use them.
Again, with this particular API,
our philosophy was to try and
avoid unnecessary changes to keep
with the spirit of the POSIX APIs.
So we've encapsulated all of
the file security information
into an opaque object,
a thing we call the FileSecT.
And this is then passed around,
so stat becomes statX with
an NP suffix so that you know
this is not a portable call,
and it returns your FileSecT.
OpenX takes one instead of a ModeT.
ChmodX takes a FileSec.
It's the same all the way around.
The ACL is part of the
file security object,
so the owner, the group,
the POSIX mode were applicable.
We provide an API for the
manipulation of the file set.
Basically get set,
check whether it's valid, clear it,
functionality.
And we provide an API for
manipulating the ACL itself,
which is based on the POSIX 10031E API.
Obviously we needed to make some
changes to cope with the differences.
But since there is a good deal of
established code and understanding
and documentation already
available for the manipulation API,
we decided that was the best way to go.
So I'm going to finish up here
with a brief example of creating
a file with an ACL associated.
In this particular case,
we don't have to be the individual
that is passed in as the
We can go ahead and,
since we're creating the file,
we can basically apply
whatever ACL we like.
So we start off, we create an empty ACL.
It's fairly straightforward.
We create an entry in the ACL.
At this point in time,
both the ACL and the entry are blank.
And then we apply the qualifier--
we apply the qualifier,
in this case the GUID, to the ACL--sorry,
to the ACE.
My apologies.
And we'll turn this into an allow-ace
because we're going to grant read-only
access to the GUI that's been passed in.
So we fetch the flags for the ACE,
we clear them just as a proportion,
and then we set the allow bit.
We get the permissions for the ACE.
Again, we'll clear them as a precaution.
And we'll grant the ability
to read data attributes,
extended attributes,
and security information.
And then we apply those to the ACE.
And so right now we've
created an ACE with one entry.
Grants this particular
GUID read-only access to the file.
Next we create ourselves
a file security object.
Since we're starting from
scratch we don't have one
of these from a stack call.
We apply the ACL to the
File Security Object,
and then we can drop the
ACL because we've copied it
into the File Security Object.
We'll turn off the POSIX permissions
so that only the ACL applies
to this particular file.
And then we'll create the file.
As you can see,
this looks just like an open call
except we're passing the file
security object rather than a mode in.
As with the traditional open,
we can actually open for any sort of
access regardless of the permissions
that we've associated with the file.
This actually allows us to create
a file securely that we have
write access to because we're
copying into it or whatever,
but that no one else
can open for writing.
We're going to clean up when we're done.
So I'm going to hand
this back to Rusty now.
He'll talk to us a little
bit about group membership.
Now we're going to talk a bit about group
membership and its relation to ACLs.
As we were going through
the design of ACLs,
it became very apparent that the existing
model that we had for group membership
really was not scalable enough,
nor was it precise enough for the things
that we wanted to do with access control.
So in Tiger,
we're going to make it more scalable,
more robust, eliminate the 16 group limit
that we have today in Panther.
And this, as you see,
is with the group membership
resolver and the kernel's ability
to defer looking up groups until the
time that it's actually necessary.
So today when you log in
with a Panther system,
it needs to go out onto the
directory and discover all the
groups to which you are a member,
even if there are only 4, 5, or 16.
Taking the first 16 that it finds,
and those become the groups
that you derive permission from.
will also be supporting nested groups.
The daemon will be able to
expand group memberships and
test membership against that,
as well as provide compatibility
with legacy software.
So in the directory we'll require
a new group schema to support this.
This new group schema is based on an
authoritative list of GUIDs rather than
using short names to define membership.
And these GUIDs may reference
either other users or other groups,
which provides us the nesting
capabilities and provides us for future
expansion since GUIDs can really be
referencing any type of object out there,
including computers or things that
devices we haven't really thought of yet.
Groups are also further identified
by their legacy group ID and
optionally the NT secure ID.
This provides us with the ability
to provide static translations for
clients such as XP clients or a
service such as the Samba service.
When binding to
Active Directory networks,
you don't need to
change the schema there.
The group resolution daemon
understands the schema that's
present in Active Directory networks
and can work with them.
So as we said before,
Panther is using a 16-group array.
Integra will be using a new group
membership service to replace that.
It provides a group expansion
capabilities and performance
is caching the results to these
queries in both positive and
negative with the time to live.
Because groups and group memberships
can be checked quite often,
especially when going through ACLs.
and then provides also the
ID translation services.
So these services are going to be
available to your software as well
through a new API that will allow
you to test membership against
groups so that you don't need to
parse membership lists manually.
And also to provide the UID and
GUID translation services or as well NTS,
the SID services.
The privileged processes today
can edit the groups to which they
are being considered a member
and which are being evaluated.
A new API will be available
to more precisely define
that within this new scheme.
All of this really opens up the
possibility for a new way to manage
individuals on your network using smaller
groups and nested hierarchies of groups.
So we can revisit the example
that we have with the teachers
and student teachers and redo
that in a more dynamic fashion.
Rather than having a single group
of teachers to represent all
teachers and student teachers,
we'll create two separate groups.
One of the staff teachers and
another of just student teachers.
Together these will be nested into
one larger global teachers group
for use where that's appropriate.
In the example that we showed,
rather than having to have a
deny entry specifically from Ms.
Buxton for that math assignment,
we can simply say student teachers
have read access to this file.
And then staff teachers
have the necessary read,
write, and delete access.
What's really nice about going
this way is that as roles,
as people's roles change
within your organization,
Ms.
Buxton gets promoted to,
gets hired as a staff teacher.
You can simply reassign her
membership within the directory
system and she'll automatically be
obtaining new permissions in the
file system where that group is,
the new group membership is encountered.
So we'll kind of wrap up here with
a little sneak peek at some proposed
user interface to manage ACLs.
First of all,
within Finder's Get Info window,
you can see it's very similar
to what you have today.
But now we have the addition
of an Others listing,
which is not just a
single group as it is now,
but another listing of both groups
and users that can be assigned
different permissions to this object.
The idea here is to keep
something that's very simple,
manageable, that people can use
from their own systems.
The initial view in the
Tiger Server Admin Tools is very similar.
It follows the same easy-to-use idea
that we have in following in Finder,
but also provides a more
detailed view of the ACL and its
associated access control entries,
allowing you to edit specific
information about them as to whether
it's an allow or deny record,
and also to be able to access preset
groups of permission entries from
the pop-up menu that you see here.
And those will provide customization
abilities so that you can define
your own sets of presets to meet
the way that you're managing
permissions on your network.
And from there you can
drill down and find more,
you know,
access more detailed permissions
on the different objects to get to
the real fine-grained permissions,
control over inheritance, and so forth.
So to summarize where we
are with ACLs and Tiger,
providing a much more flexible way of
expressing permissions on objects in the
file system and reducing the arbitrary
limits that we have today in the OS.
Supporting compatibility with
Microsoft in Microsoft networks,
both the client and the server,
and providing a better platform
for collaboration and workflow.
With that,
we're providing new information that's
now exposed in the file system both in
terms of ACLs and extended attributes
that needs to be supported by software,
specifically copy engines, archivers,
and so on.
Some of those changes we'll be making
ourselves and some of those are going to
be required by your third-party software.
And finally,
this may impact the way that you
manage your network and hopefully we'll
be able to give you enough of some
information here today that you can begin
planning for those changes coming up.